Information for the project: 

You need to send me an email to make a reservation for the project you want to do (see list below).
a team of two students at most is allowed to understand together the paper. However, the report, the presentation and the code has to be done alone.
I am available during each TD. It is important to discuss with me about what you should do to get a good grade. Start at least the initial part of your project as soon as possible. 
If you want to do a project which is not on the list, contact me to discuss about it.
Each project contains some links with material related to the project. This is merely some pointers to initiate your work, and we need to discuss what exactly you need to do.
Remember that in order to get a good grade : 
Each project requires reading and understanding.
Each project requires some coding (not only using some existing toolbox).
Each project requires a testing phase of the methods on your own data.
 

Information for the presentation: 

The deadline is strict.
The duration is 15/20 minutes (+3 minutes questions).
It is short. You must use a chronometer to monitor your timing and be on time.
You must make several rehearsals in front of friends. It is very important to make rehearsals. 
You must bring the slides it with you on a USB stick in a PDF format. No Powerpoint, no Keynote please (there are always problems). You will not be using your own Laptop. 
If possible, I recommend you send the slides to me the day before, so that everything is already installed on my laptop.
If you want to do a real time demo or to show a video, prepare your own computer and bring it with you already switched on. 
Your audience is me, i.e. someone who already know most of the method, but probably not all the details. And all the rest of the classmates.
Do not prepare too much slides, 15/20 minutes is short. I would suggest between 10 and 14 slides.
I suggest a slideshow as follow:
Title / name
Presentation of the problem
Proposed methods
Theoretical analysis
Numerical findings
Critics
Conclusion / perspective
 

Information for the project report: 

If possible, write the report in french or english. 
You must bring a printed version with your to give me before the presentation. This is a strict deadline. 
Using Latex is recommended but you can use word or something else that generates pdf files.
Not less than 4 pages and up to 12 pages (A4, 11pt font, single column), including roughly one page of bibliography.
Should be similar to a (short) scientific article. 
When presenting the numerics, give all parameters, so that the results are reproducible. 
It should not be a rewriting of the original article. You should only report about what you have done, and only explain the theory that is relevant to explain the numerics you have done.
Suggestion of structure for the report: 
Abstract: 
What problem(s) is studied ? 
Why is it relevant ? 
What solution(s) is proposed ? 
Which contributions (theory, numerics, etc) ? 
Introduction : 
Presentation of the problem(s). 
Previous works (at least a few citations). If relevant, include things that you have seen during the lectures.
Contributions. Why is the studied method different/better/worse/etc. than existing previous works. 
Main body (~10 pages) : 
Presentation of the method(s). 
Theoretical guarantees. 
Numerics. 
Conclusion and perspective (~1 page)
Summary of the result obtained: pros and cons (limitation, problems, error in the articles, etc)
Possible improvement/extension
Bibliography (~1 page)